I'm now going to go through the assignment for testing
graceful shutdowns, and I'm going to do this twice.
I'm going to do this on a Mac, which is very similar to the
experience you would have on Linux.
Then I'm going to do this in PowerShell on Windows 10.
If you're running this on Windows 10, or any Windows
version really, move forward, somewhere around
half of the video.
You'll see it shifts to be from this screen
that I have now where it's a sort of typical looking
Mac shell, to a PowerShell with the blue background,
and skip to that. Then that'll be a similar experience.
The control C experience is different on each operating
system. So, I want you to sort of see what I'm going to see
as I do this, so I'll go through it twice.
This one will be for the Mac and Linux people.
The first step in the assignment was to use the assignment
Dockerfile and the Dockerfile that you
just created in the previous assignment.
So, if you haven't done that assignment first, you need to
do that so that you will have a Dockerfile.
Then, we're going to build that Dockerfile and run it
several different ways, to see whether or not
the proper exit is happening.
Here, I've got an image of
assignment1, and I built it as we built it in the
last lecture.
You can see here, in that assignment, we
added tini into the image, right.
We've got line 5 where I run the apk install tini,
and then we're running tini as a part of the entry point in
line 15.
So, great. Let's now run that image
and see what the experience is.
I don't want to detach this because if I do, then I won't
have that control C experience.
I'll need to run it in the foreground and then try to exit
out of it.
Ok, so my server has started. I technically didn't need to
run the port because we're not testing the port
being open, but we are just testing the control C and the
exiting out of it. If I control C here,
that should work. If I do a docker ps, I shouldn't
have anything running.
So, that correctly stopped the container because
tini was running in the foreground as the main
process, or the PID1. It was
then sending that signal to node.js
and then exiting the application. You'll notice that
did not take 10 seconds, so we didn't have to wait for
it to send a signal and then wait
seeing that it had ignored it, and then do a kill, right.
Tini takes care of that for us, so we don't have to wait
for the kill. Now if we do that same docker run command but
we add in the -d, add it
anywhere in the middle of the line there.
So -d. So it will run as a daemon.
Then it will run in detach mode, and I should build to see
it running in the ps command.
You'll see here that it is running and
indeed it's running on the same port that I specified
before because the other one has stopped.
So, I'm going to need to stop this, so docker stop,
and I can just type in the first couple of characters of
the ID.
So, in my case it's 3d. Obviously, it'll be different for
you, and it should return right away, right.
It shouldn't take 10 seconds.
So that's again, tini doing its job correctly, shutting
down the Node app. This still isn't it
actually doing a healthy shutdown
of connections, right.
That still requires code in my application
that we talked about as a bonus to this.
So, before we get to that bonus layer, let's
just talk about the difference between this and the entry
point, right. We're going to shift the entry point, and
we're just going to comment it out.
Then, even though tini's installed,
it won't run.
Let me just save this and
I'm going to do a docker build.
I'm going to call it assignment1. I'm going to give
it a tag of
notini.
So, I'll do that, and it will build a
new image tag
that won't have the tini executed
during startup.
If I run that all again, if I go back to here
and I go back to this run, and
I type in notini, then it should run
the version without tini in the mix, right.
But if I did a docker top on that
container, so mine started with a 48.
Your's would be something different, the ID.
I would see there that it's only
running the single process, right.
If I went back to the other one.
What's interesting here is if I took off the assignment1.
Now, let's take out the port so that I can run both of
these at the same time. It isn't really...we don't really
need the port anyway.
If I do that docker run -d there, and I do a docker
top bd.
Because that was the second container.
You'll see that there's two processes and that's what's
happening is tini is running first, and then it's
executing the Node app binary
for you, right.
So, that was normal.
That's what we expect.
The problem comes into play here, though, on this notini
container, so if I do a docker stop on that first
one, on 48, which is the notini one.
What you would expect to see here is it's trying to stop
Node. Node's not listening for the
shutdown signal.
So Docker waits 10 seconds and then has to give
it a kill.
Ideally, we don't want that, right.
Not only is it slower, right. Takes everything longer, but
you're not only not looking for
shutting down connections, but you're also shutting down
Node hard. So, Node doesn't even have a chance to do
anything properly.
So, you definitely see the difference here, right.
If I had that container, if someone
had given me that image and I had to run it even
without tini in it, I could do
something like this. Now, this doesn't even require tini in
the box, right. I could do a docker run
init, and let's do that again
on assignment notini. So,
this doesn't even require tini to be installed.
We talked about this a little bit earlier.
This is sort of something if I get someone else's image
where I need to run the image I'm just going to run that
with it injecting it at runtime.
That way, if I do a docker top on that
one, 15, it
does indeed have the init in it.
You'll notice it's a different location.
It's under /dev/init rather
than /sbin/tini.
So, that's a way that I could tell the difference between
one that I injected at runtime with the --init
and one that I installed and ran manually in the container
with a proper build.
This is the second part of the video where I do the exact,
same thing on a Windows 10 Pro machine.
I'm using PowerShell here, but you should get the same
experience doing this if you're on an older version of
Windows, or Windows 10 Home, and you're using the toolbox.
The big difference really here is just control C.
So, if I've already built the image again as assignment1
from the first demonstration, I
can do a docker run.
I don't need to specify a port here really because we're
not testing the website.
We're just wanting to run it and try to stop it.
So, I can do assignment1.
Remember, this is the one with tini in
it, and tini running in the entry point script, right.
Just as a refresher, we...this is what it looks like.
It was from the assignment last time.
We were installing tini, and then we've got it down here in
the entry point, and then it runs the node command for you.
If I go back to PowerShell and I hit enter,
it'll start up as it would on any OS.
But when I hit control C, like I would normally do in Mac
and Linux, this doesn't actually stop it.
So I can do a docker ps and you'll see it's still running.
So I'll need to do a docker stop to get it to quit.
So docker stop 7a.
Then I can do a docker ps and it should be stopped.
You'll notice that it only took a second for it to quit.
That's because tini is in there doing the work for
us. If I did that same docker run again,
and I control C out of that, and then
docker ps.
So, we've got this container running again, right.
Same thing. But if I do a docker top
on e8, so that's my ID, obviously different
than yours, you'll see that tini is in there.
And that's the route process, and then it runs the node.js
for me, so there's actually two processes running.
Cool. So, docker stop e8.
Then if I do a docker build just like I did before,
and I tag it with assignment1,
and I give it the notini tag.
That way I can tell the difference between the two,
different images.
Then if I do a docker run again, assignment1 notini,
and this is going to run the same thing, but tini is not
going to be involved, right.
Now if I control C on Windows, it still won't quit
it. And if I do a docker ps here, then
I should see that one container running.
I can stop it, but this time
docker stop 8b. Of course, that will be different for you.
But that's the ID there.
If that stops, you'll notice that it's waiting
10 seconds. That 10 seconds is a default
timeout before Docker will kill the image.
Or rather, kill the container, because the container
wasn't listening for the signal.
And that's a great example of how tini is helping us
without having to put any additional code in.
If I had an image like that, and I needed to run it but
I couldn't get tini into the image, I could do that
trick where I do a docker run with the
init in there, and that injects
at runtime the tini
binary that's actually comes with Docker out-of-the-box.
So, we wouldn't need even install it.
Assignment1 notini.
Then if I control C out of that, and then do
a docker ps, and see that it's
container ID 28. So do a docker stop 28.
Then it should immediately quit.
So, we know that tini is actually going in there at
runtime, and we didn't actually need it in the image
at all. Hopefully, you see the differences.
It's very subtle. It's really just the difference between
the control C on windows and that on Mac and
Linux.
All right. I'll see you in the next lecture.